Theogeny of Omega,

being an explication of the Ways of the Gods of Omega.

Know ye, O ignornat ones, the Omega is the battelground of the mighty forces of
Law and Chaos. Poerful are the Champions and Avatars of the two great forces,
but most powerful of all are the Gods who, it is rumored, have been summoned
from other planes to represent the two forces.

On the side of Law:

  Odin, God of Vengeance -- follows of Odin vow to eradicate the taint of chaos
wherever it may be found. Odin rewards his faithful with the power to strike
strong blows against the Legions of Chaos.

  Athena, Goddess of Justice -- devotees of Athena, while prepared to fight the
forces of chaos, choose a more intellectual approach to the battle, marshalling
the more subtle powers or magic in their striving.

On the side of Chaos:

  Set, God of Destruction -- worshippers of Set will follow any path to destroy
and corrupt Lay and its minions. Set teaches his followers powers qually as
potent as those of Odin.

  Hecate, Goddess of Illusion -- Hecate matches Athena's wisdom with deception,
and matches Athena's defensive powers with desctructive abilities.

Followers of any of these dieties must be careful to keep to the true path --
the wrath of a God is fearsome...It is also said the Gods are jealous --
honoring another deity, even of the same alignments, is an extremely bad
idea. On the other hand, and act against a God of the opposite alignment would
be looked on kindly by your patron diety.

It should be noted that there are still other Gods of Omega. The Druids think
themselves beyond the struggles of Law and Chaos and attempt to maintain a
Balance between the two -- they are despised by all the aligned Gods. The
ArchDruid is said to command powers greater than any other cleric.

The mysterious Lords of Destiny are said to preside over the struggles of Law
and Chaos as a referee rules a bout. Their powers are said to be extremely
subtle and pervasive, and while no one has ever seen this power displayed, the
self-appointed clerics of these mysterious beings claim great abilities. Certain
it is that the aligned Gods have never acted against the followers of the Lords
of Destiny, though whether this is because of their power, or because they offer
no threat, is unknown.
