& misc

{{SUBJECT}}
  Galactic Bloodshed unrelated stories and jokes

{{DESCRIPTION}}
  These stories and jokes were found lingering in the old GB help files. Not
having the heart to delete them from the distribution forever, I've put them in
their own 'hidden' section. Some are long, some are short.

  "While you were out: your people plated your planet. Will call back."
    -- Note greeting someone after they came back a few hours after their
       Galactic Bloodshed game went to three-minute updates.

& dhuttle

{{HISTORY}} - The Dhuttle

The dhuttles was a ship found in the HUT variation of GB+. It was exactly like a
space shuttle. The only different was it showed a little saying upon launching:
"Creepy will return!" That's it, otherwise it was EXACTLY the same as a shuttle.
I've removed it from the GB+ source code, it was apparently some kind of inside
joke for the Finnish GB'ers; the code changes were made by Kharush. Here's a
description of the Dhuttle as it appeared in the help file:

__Dhuttle__

The Mighty Dhuttle
  Approximately ten years ago scientists found a design of an alien ship from a
distant planet around star Orion. After months of decoding engineers were able
to construct the ship, which resembles very much our shuttle. It is believed,
though, that this dhuttle is a design of an extinct race that was superior to us
in technology. Dhuttle has one mighty light gun for defence and attack purposes
and it has no need for armor whatsoever.
  There are two notable differences between shuttles and dhuttles. A shuttle
makes normal marks of rocket launch on the ground when it is luanched but
dhuttle engraves a certain pattern to the Earth. Big thing here is that the
exhaust pipes of both designs are the same.
  This pattern made by a dhuttle is a triangle in center of which you can
perceive letters HUT. Two points of the triangle have also letters. On one point
of the triangle letters form a word GEM and on the other one a word of Jurmet.
However, in the last year there have been reports of a word on the third point
also. This third word has reported to have a form of Ix, Hitchhiker, Romans or
Turtles. It seems that the final form of the third word is not yet fixed, which,
in fact, implies that this alien race is not extinct but lives somewhere in the
galaxy...
  The other difference is a very special feature. The noise caused by dhuttle
launch sounds like cry: 'Creepy will return!'

& history

__Galactic Bloodshed History__
as known by Keeshans

Table of Contents
    I. Introduction
   II. The Early Days
  III. Another Server Arrives
   IV. GB Development Continues
    V. Renewed Interest from Finland
   VI. Document History

{{I. Introduction}}
  From my perspective, here is my understanding of the history of the game known
as GB (Galactic Bloodshed). One day, in the summer of 1990, when I went to read
USENET, my trusty newsreader, rn at the time, prompted me with new newsgroups.
Among them was alt.games.galactic-bloodshed. Having been playing tinyMUDs, IRC,
and Empire a bit, I started reading the newsgroup and following the topics.
Shortly, thereafter it was determined that the name galactic-bloodshed was too
long of a name on some UNIXes and so a new newsgroup, alt.games.gb, was created.
I actually played in a game over the summer and learned a bit more about GB. The
game was originally created by Robert Chansky and development was passed on to
Garrett VanCleef. Vancleef had help from Brian Scearce, who went by Humanity
Version 2.3. This occurred before my time, so VanCleef was the developer when I
started to play.

{{II. The Early Days}}
  At that time, yo usigned up for a race by picking 1 of 10 predetermined races.
Numbers 1 and 2 were morphs, and the rest were a mixture of normals (the
attributes varied). Also interesting to note is that iceballs were the prime
planet to pick, high in resources and large enough for a young race to grow
from. Money didn't exist, which means neither did the market. One person played
the race since there were no Governors yet.
  After having played the game for the summer, I felt the client could be
improved since I was familiar with the things clients for IRC and MUDs could do.
So I set out to rewrite the gb client. Being original, I called it gbII.

From the gbII history file:
  Early October I started playing Galactic Bloodshed. On the 17th of that month,
I decided that the client could be made better and I started to write the client
from scratch so that everything would be done in a way I understood. By the 20th
(and shortly after my GMAT exam) I had finished the main routines, and proceeded
to add history, recall, and logging. This was released on October 26, 1990 as
version 1.0.1.
  I continued from there enhancing the client, leaving the server development to
VanCleef. The client got enhanced and had analysis (Nov. 23, 1990), which I used
to a great advantage in a blitz game, since I was the only one with it. It's
value prompted it to be added directly into the server (Feb. 27, 1991).
  At some point the server picked up money, markets, racegen (a wonderful
improvement if I sy so myself), and governors (from HAP, see below).

{{III. Another Server Arrives}}
  A second parallel server effort was started, by someone who's name I will have
to look up from the source, called HAP, Heuristic Astronomy Project. It had some
differences from the normal GB server. You had to have significant contact with
someone to understand what they were saying, broadcasts were garbled with not
all the words coming through clearly. It had a drawback in that if you could
understand some of it, you could repeat your message many times and different
words would be readable. So if it was repeated enough time you could understand
the other person.
  HAP contributed Governors to the GB mainline as well.

{{IV. GB Development Continues}}
  At some point, VanCleef became too busy to maintain the server and development
was taken over by John Deragon. He ambitiously started a port to C++ since GB
lends itself to object oriented technology. The real world, since he and I both
graduated by now, took it's toll and neither of us had much time or desire to be
coding after work. So development was slow. The client last had a release on
Dec. 3, 1993.

{{V. Renewed Interest from Finland}}
  For some unknown reason, the GB players are extremely loyal and several came
back to it after a lull and started running games again. The Finland crowd got
ambitious and started rewritting the server (Click here for their project
information).
  My work had me learning Java so I started writing a graphical client. It is
rudimentary at this time, but so is Java. Hopefully the Finn's server will
breathe new life into GB. And someday I may release a new client. The future
will tell.

  PS. If I've missed anything that is worth adding PLEASE tell me and I will
update this. It is a living document and I wanted to get it down on paper and
then polish it up!

{{IV. Document History}}
  Feb. 24, 1997 - Evan Koffler - Corrections.
  Jan. 1, 1997 - Evan Koffler - Created

& laugh

{{FICTION}}
  '__The Last Laugh__' by Rob Chanksy, (c) 1991

  From the Jul. '91 issue of Quanta, an online 'zine.
  http://www.etext.org/zines/Quanta

  The Camp had grown from a lone trailer to a massive though temporary
installation, only to shrink back. The trailer sat again by itself, soon to be
moved to wherever it would be deemed more useful.
  The second-to-last keep was leaving, shaking off the dust of the site behind
it. The military wanted nothing more to do with this elaborate joke.
  The Arizona sun beat relentlessly on the trailer's white metal surface, daring
the overworked air conditioner to maintain a comfortable roome temperature. The
old man inside cared little for the weather; he knew nothing but a life wasted,
squandered on a useless task now completed. If he could remember...if only...
  Something he had started, thought about, in his past. The idea eluded him
still.
  Or perhaps not. Perhaps it had all been a hoax. But that letter--it had been
so self-satisfied, so damnably smug.
  He would kill that man, whoever had written that letter, if in all of creation
there was a way to get to him...
  For him, it had started with a phone call.
  To his colleagues, the scribbles on his office blackboard were
incomprehensible; but Professor Bequay used a mathematical notation meaningful
only to himself. He was sixty-five years old, and he had done things this way
all his life. He would not change it for the University or for anyone.
  He had been free-associating that morning, as he normally did, but today he
felt he was onto something that could be important. But Bequay was never one who
could ignore the anxious trilling of his telephone. The scribbles would have to
wait for now, while he answered it.
  "Professor Anderson Bequay?" The voice sounded very official and important;
probably one worth a modicrum of politeness.
  "Yes, what can I do for you?"
  "Professor, I have been in touch with certain research elements in the
military." Ah, yes. He had done several government consultations here and there
in the past, and the government had a way of remembering your name. "There is a
problem for which your name happened to come up."
  "Certainly. Could you come to my office to discuss it?"
  "I'm afraid that in the interests of National Security..." The man went on to
mention the code and section, and, amazingly, recited a paragraph taken verbatim
from the book. Bequay was talking to a man who had actually memorized the
paragraph, rather than merely one who enjoyed quoting it to him. He admired a
stickler for details, it meant an ordered mind. "..you would have to agree to
join the project before any details can be given. Do you understand?"
  Of course he did. There were, he supposed, worse things he could do with his
time than spend it sweating in the Arizona sun. For instance, staying here...and
staying here meant the annual faculty awards banquet. He had always hated the
awards dinners, much more so this year as the guest of honor. The other faulty
don't much care for him, and the feeling was mutual; leaving that unpleasentness
for whatever awaited him in the desert sounded like a good way to avoid his
implending social demands.
  Professor Bequay, forgetting the attraction of his blackboard and the ideas on
it, turned his attention to the terminal on his desk. He checked his electronic
mail; apparently the government had already contacted the dean and Benquay had
been cleared for two weeks leave. He sent memos to a few of the faculty and
students, being purposefully vague on where he was going and what he was
doing. The datanalysis classes he was teaching would have to fend for themselves
for the time being; it would reflect badly on his record, but so what. They
certainly hadn't hired him for his teaching ability. His research had
revolutionized the field of datanalysis, to the point where it was (nearly) its
own discipline now.
  Not much more to do here. Someone would come int and water his plants; he had
found this out after his last extended absence, discovering that his kudzu
hybrid had burst from its glass container and enrooted itself into some of his
paper files and the wall nearby. Now he kept it stunted with mercury. He locked
the computer up, and glanced at the blackboard. Something wrong.
  There it was. He picked up the eraser and remove a "-" from the equation.
There; everything was much clearer.
  But clear or not, it would have to wait. He locked the door behind him.
  The hall containing his office made a 90-degree right turn before it came to
an exit. entering the turn, Berquay collided with a bespectacled young man
carrying reams of computer printouts. The printouts scattered like laundry in a
storm. "Sorry, sorry" the grad student muttered as he tried to gather them back.
Rules of politeness compelled Bequay to reluctantly stoop and help him. The
student looked up.
  "Prof -- Professor Bequay, I was just trying to see you," the male student
said, his astonishment quickly escalating to enthusiasm. "Here, I'm from the
astrophys department -- oh, it's just amazing, sir, we've picked up--"
  "Not now, I'm very busy." Bequay proferred the three or four sheafs of
printout at the grad student, but both his hands were busy trying to control his
own bundle. Bequay, not seeing any point in forcing the man to accept the papers
he'd picked up, let them drop on the floor with the rest.
  "But-- it's-- will you, will you be in your office tomorrow? The student
looked despondently at the papers in a mess on the floor. He looked haggard and
out of breath; it didn't seem as though he'd slept in several days.
  But the professor had turned and was walking away. He waved his hand at the
question, hoping the student would take it as a yes and leave him alone. Bequay
had seen the heading on one of the sheets of paper the student had dropped:
"Astrophys. SETI division, e-mag. anomaly IV. Time: 03:45:32 - 03:50:23". Bequay
had no patience with the sort of people involved in the Search for
Extraterrestrial Intelligence, in fact with the whole idealist mindset that
would want to join such an organization. His pioneering work in datanlysis had
benefited their program immensely, if only to keep them from crying
"extraterrestrial" every time someone turned on a malfunctioning hair drier in
the suburbs. They bothered him occasionally, trying to get him involved in some
project of theirs. Bequay did not wish to be involved.
  He was met at the Pheonix airport by two men in full officer uniform, complete
with salute. They drove him to the site-- an uncomfortable four hour trip.
  The last few miles saw them through a winding absence of rocks and brush that
might have been called a road. Bequay became even more irritable with every bump
and jostle. Finally, though, Bequay and the two silent men came to a
dust-covered white trailer in the middle of nowhere. Several jeeps and a troop
carrier were in position next to it.
  When the car pulled up next to the largest vehicle, Bequay could make out men
at work everywhere-- spreading camouflage nets over the trailer, setting up a
fence perimeter, fastening together sheets of sand-colored plastic in a large
sircular area that would presumably become a landing pad for helicopters.
  Bequay and the two men got out, an escort appearing immediately around all of
them. They took his small suitcase. He was gently tugged along into a blessedly
cool trailer. An overweight man in a colonel's uniform took Bequay's hand and
pumped it jovially. "Professor Bequay, glad you coud make it. Have you been
briefed?"
  The professor said no. The colonel dismissed the uniformed men and offered him
coffee.
  Bequay took black, no sugar. Motioning towards the window and the activities
going on outside it, he said, "What's this all about?"
  The colonel leaned comfortably back in his chair. "We have discovered
something here, professor Bequay. Something extraordinary, if my assistants are
to be believed." It sounded as though he believed it. "Are your security folder
in order?"
  "They rushed me through all that; yes, I am under oath to repeat nothing of
what I see. Now get on with it."
  "The official word for this," the colonel leaned close for emphasis, "is a
'chronological anomaly'."
  "And how did you find this 'anomaly'?"
  "There is a russian submarine with a titanium hull," the colonel
explained. "Some of our people have been trying to come up with a metal detector
specifically tuned to titanium, such that this type of sub can be detected deep
under the sea. We were testing this device with a hidden cache of titanium near
here..."
  "In the desert?"
  "The principle is almost the same in sand as it is under the ocean; and here
the search was less expensive. Regardless, we turned up this anomaly instead of
the scrap of metal that had been hidden." The colonel -- his name was Sutherland
-- led Bequay outside again, into the scorching afternoon. On the other side of
the trailer was a hole in the ground, about ten meters in diameter. A stout
wooden ladder led to the bottom. Sutherland went first, motioning for Bequay to
follow.
  "The helicopter crew was working here for a three day pass. They tried to get
the anomaly out of the rock, thinking the crew that had hidden the metal
fragments had decided to make them work for their prize. At the time, it was
fused into solid rock with one corner protruding. Eventually they realized that
what they'd found was not what they'd been told to bring back."
  They were both inside the dig now, a little deeper than the professor's
height. It sloped upwards toward one corner, where a man hunched over something,
making brushing motions with his arms. He turned around. Sutherland introduced
Bequay to Lieutenant Gordon, who smiled and called him "sir" as he offered his
hand. The professor shook it tersely, not even looking at the man.
  "this is your anomaly?" he asked.
  'This' was a small metallic box. It jutted straight out from the sandstone
wall of the dig, about half a meter from rounded corner to rounded corner. Four
of the corners were still buried in solid rock, bot someone had dug all around
it. Rust and corrosion seemed to have ignored it completely.
  The lieutanent smiled. "This is what we found. Beautiful, isn't it?"
  Bequay didn't like the lieutenant. "So," he said, "you've found a metal box."
  The lieutenant struggled inwardly, trying to sort out all the things that he
wanted to say. The professor said testily, "you must have called me here for
something, some data to analyze. That's what I do, unless you got my name off
the wrong list."
  Sutherland, a hint of a grin on his lips, simply gestured towards the box. The
professor bent closer to one particular face -- nearly touching it. That one
face, not completely excavated from the stone around it, was not featureless; in
fact there was a square of glass inlaid there -- like a small window, but
opaque. There was writing there.
  Property of the United States of America.
  And, under that
  Important Data
  "Important," said the lieutenant. "Damn right it's important. Important enough
to be left in layers of sediment formed at least six million years
ago. Important enough to last all that time-- and God knows how much longer."
The soldier inspected each face in turn, from Sutherland's gloating expression
to Bequay's attitude of cynical fascination. "Pretty important, all right," he
said.
  The box was cut out of the rock, and a portable crane produced to lift it from
its ancient home. Now it sat on a reinforced steel table beneath a large tent i
nthe Camp, calmly guarding whatever secrets it contained, preparatory to its
being moved to an undisclosed location. The dig was being widened, deepened, in
the hopes of another find. A helicopter performed tighter and tighter
grid-searches of the area, and more of the metal detectors were on their way.
  "Some sort of geological survey, maybe," the lieutenant offered. "They set it
back in time to record seismic data. Not much else it could record, stuck in the
ground like that."
  Bequay sipped his coffee and glowered at the lieutenant. His mild dislike had
blossomed into continuing irritation. The lieutenant consistently reminded him
of a personality he had never gotten along with.
  He got up to walk around the box. Featureless gray metal greeted him from all
sides-- except for the almost invisible seam that encircled it. He turned to the
two men. "How do we get it open?"
  "I still don't know if we should." They both looked at the
lieutenant. "Obviously it's not meant for us."
  "Misgivings so soon, lieutenant?" Sutherland, previously silent, decided to
join the conversation. "I'm afraid it's ours now. Whoever put it there didn't
bother to check our schedule." He shrugged. "Their loss." He asked Bequay, "were
you awake this morning when we tried the drill?"
  "No. It woke me up." Pieces of the tent flapped loosely in the wind, marking
the passage of fragments of the exploding drill bit. It had nearly cost two
lives, and there wasn't a mark on the box.
  Bequay ran his fingers over the lid-- what was presumably the lid, anyway. The
small glass square on the top seemed to be the only thing that even hinted at
its great age; tiny scratches crisscrossed its surface. They hadn't wanted to
drill here, even though it seemed the weakest part, for fear it might have
broken some apparaturs inside. Now it looked like they would have to...
  As the tips of his fingers brushed the glass, something seems to shift
inside. A thump, from somewhere inside the impervious structure.
  Professor Bequay backpedaled from the box, fearing whatever might happen. But
it remained where it was, waiting.
  "What's wrong?"
  "Something happened. I fealt something move inside." He peered more closely at
the sides of the box; the seam that marked the border between box and lid should
have been barely perceptible-- now it seemed wider, possibly wide enough to
admit a dime.
  The colonel noticied it too. "Sergeant! Give me your tool belt." From it he
produced a pair of flat screwdrivers, giving one to the lieutenant. Both worked
at the thin seam, twisting and prying the screwdrivers to widen it. Bequay
watched them work, arms folded.
  There was a sucking sound of ancient air being exchanged, and the colonel and
lieutenant were lifting the heavy lid, amazingly separate from its box. They
dropped it to the side.
  Smoke curled up from the inside; Bequay couldn't see what was in the box. Both
box and lid were trembling slightly, vibrating as though some engine had started
up inside. The vibrations increased in intensity, first producing a strange
double-toned hum as the vibrations transferred to the steel table-- then
stronger, the sound filling the space around them as something physical-- and
then thudding into the steel table while the three men desperately clasped their
ears agains the sound.
  The air was suddenly drenched with light -- a light that burned his face and
blinded his eyes. Bequay saw nothing more for a while.
  Men filled the small tent, trying to help him up and chattering among
themselves. they were frightened voices. "I can't see. I can't see," Bequay told
them, blinking his eyes. His vision was nothing but a continual grayness
occasionally streaked with blue.
  There must have been a doctor at the Camp, for someone was swirling a penlight
before his dimmed vision and trying to reassure him. "Here, it's only
temporary. You'll have a hell of a sunburn through. It's over. It's all over."
  But it was not over.
  Whatever else had been in the box was now slag puddled in the bottom of the
small cavity; only a cube of quartz-like material had survived. Bequay knew
there had been speculations about the development of crystalline recording
media. Since this box was from the future, the crystal might be one of those
speculations brought to life.
  The cube shimmered in his hand, when he held it; rainbow patterns shifted and
curled within the enigmatic crystal. All his life, he realized, he had looked
for a challenge of this equal. His earlier experiences had taught him that
looking for order in the chaotic randomness of the universe could drive one
hopelessly pedantic -- or else just as hopelessly eager to see intelligence
behind every little pip and spike on a frequency graph. Here was something
genuine -- an encoding of information, completely man-made yet as alien as
anything yet discovered -- and he intended to deduce its purpose here. No device
currently existed to read the data encoded in the smoke-like wisps of color. It
would be necessary to invent one.
  The lettering on the box suggested that, if there were textual data here --
and there was no reason to assume there weren't -- it would be in English. This
was a break. If, as the lieutenant had suggested, it consisted only of a seismic
readout, it sill would not be edifficult to decode; and the data uncovered would
be very useful and profitable, whatever the crystal contained.
  Bequay was certain of that.
  The only question was how it was encoded. A person from the time that had
built this object would no doubt have little trouble buying a machine to read
the crystal, but no such machines existed now. Bequay would have to deduce what
standards had been chosen for the construction of such a machine, and those for
the encoding of the crystals it used.
  Bequay gleefully allowed his project directors to exert political pressure on
the dean of the university, to grant him indefinite leave to work on the
project. He had never liked life in academia, anyway. The dean told him there
were more communiques awaiting his attention, particularly from the SETI
organization, which maintained that they needed his expertise to decode
anomalous transmissions of non-terrestrial origin they had intercepted. Bequay
disregarded the messages. He had a much bigger project already on hand.
  To the rest of the world, Anderson Bequay had dropped out of sight.
  A secret lab was prepared in Colorado; Bequay asked for, and received,
assistants and equipment from all over the country. The cube was measured,
mapped, weighed, chemically analyzed, micrographed, and magnetically
tested. After a year of more complex examinations, the team came to a
conclusion: the information Bequay sought hid behind the molecular bonds of the
crystal itself. The cube could not be "read" by currently available
means. Bequay was upset. This would mean more delays, if indeed the technology
ever became viable at all -- though of course it was obvious that it would.
  Analysis of the box that had brought this cube proved futile. If any machinery
had been functional before the box was opened, it had melted itself down
completely. Even the formerly impervious outer shell was now weak and cumbly
after the booby trap, or whatever it was, had been tripped by its opening. No
futuristic miracles of metallury would be learned from it.
  There was still one avenue to take. They knew there WOULD, someday, be an
information storage/retrieval system that would use this crystal. If it did not
come from too far in the future, there may be a corporation that has considered
the system at some time. This meant reports and specifications would be
available, reports that may give a direction on development of the way in which
the crystal was (would be) encoded.
  A large Japanese-based corporation took its time in responding to their
inquiries. They had, in fact, considered a crystal medium for a recording
device; however, it was far too impractical to produce. Bequay asked for the
reports anyhow.
  After two more years a prototype reader was ready. It took up the space of a
high school gymnasium, had leached half a billion dollars from the Pentagon's
budget, and used a sizable portion of the power output of a nearby plant. Three
equisitely miniaturized lasers aimed at three sides of the cube, turning it into
a blaze of fiery red for all of the twenty minutes it took to read the
cube. Bequay's task could finally begin.
  Data is essentially one-dimensional, a binary function of time, but the
crystal was a three-dimensional object. Was the data on it recorded from left to
right, top to bottom, in some other order, or in a more complex pattern? The
cube had no defined top or bottom, so Bequay had hundreds of distinct sets of
data to decode, for just the simpler patterns.
  Each set was analyzed in its turn. there existed rigorous standards for binary
notation; each "bit" of 1 or 0 could be grouped together in established
patterns; seven of eight to a character in the English alphabet, for
instance. It was reasonable to assume the makers of the cube would not change
these standards, but nothing of meaning was found in any interpretation.
  Bequay and his hand-picked team tried everything, every possible formula they
could think of, but it stubbornly refused to be turned into sense. His own
analysis formulae told him that every interpretation was random data.
  The military wanted results, and were getting impatient. Five years had
passed.
  Bequay was now seventy years old. His eyes had failed him long ago and now his
body and mind were beginning to follow suit. He resisted the aging process every
step of the way. He remained at his workstation late at night, sometimes waking
at his terminal the next morning with the computer's keyboard imprinted on his
forehead.
  His sleeping habit deteriorated his health further, and pneumonia put him in
the hospital. As he lay dreaming of shimmering cubes, the team of graduates that
had been working with him grew shiftless; personality conflicts previously
suppressed by his strong leadership were brought into the open.
  Bequay returned to health to find his team split up, his project about to be
dissolved. Surprisingly, he did not care.
  He had found it.
  A vision had come to his confused mind again and again: bending over the
etched words of that ancient box, reading the words there, printed so neatly and
so obviously on the cover. Whey bother writing those words at all? Who would
need identification? What if it had been discovered by someone else, before the
United Stats had even existed? Six million years was a long time. Not that
Bequay swallowed those stories of Atlantean civilizations or ancient astronauts
-- that was for others to believe -- but he could picture Indians spotting the
dull corner of metal and trying to chip it out, or a group of early American
settlers break a wagon wheel on it.
  Important Data...Why inform the casual observer of the artifact's contents?
The people who had sent it obviously meant to find it again, and they needed no
memory jogging as to its purpose.
  Was there something IN those words? A message for him, perhaps. Why not? The
engraving had mentioned data, and who else would the government contact if they
wanted to analyze data?
  Bequay found he liked that explanation.
  His vision only pointed this out, but he had deciphered its true meaning. It
was time to visit the desert site again.
  It had not changed much in the years since he had been here last. The fences
were still there, and the guards, though there were much fewer of both
now. Excavation had been abandoned, after nothing more had been found. The heat
was still the same. The younger Bequay had borne the oppresive heat fairly
easily, but now he found it difficult to even move.
  He carried his briefcase to the white trailer, still there, but much more
uncomfortable than it had been. The briefcase was a portable terminal, and,
hooked to the trailer's communication system, allowed him to access the
computers that had still not been taken away from his project.
  The box was there, but he was not interested in that. It had cumbled under its
own weight, a despondent heap in a nitrogen tank.
  The lid was here, damaged as well. Bequay had brought with him a microscope.
  The words were as he had recalled them, but hcanged slightly-- instead of
lettering sunken straight into the metal, parts of the sunken engravings had
evaporated, leaving irregular ridges instead of smooth ones. The ridges went up
and down like the surface of a key, in regular patterns: up, up, down, up, down,
et cetera.
  Bequay wrote these down in order, from the top stroke of the 'P' to the bottom
of the 'a' in 'Data'. He entered these into the computer as the Camp guards
watched him. If they were mask bits, they were a key to Bequay's magic data. He
told the project computer to run each set of data through his decoding program
once more.
  After ten minutes the first dataset produced nothing. The second gave the same
results; likewise the third. Bequay went to take a nap.
  After the thirty-seventh the computer gave a distinct chime, and one of the
soldiers had to wake Bequay. When he returned to the workstation he saw his
program had produced a diagnostic-- the only such it had ever made in the last
five years:
  English text corollary found @ byte 45024852
  He told the the computer to read to the end of the gigantic mass of data--to
find a page of English text. His eyes grew wide.
  My dear professor Bequay,
  Obviously you have invented a machine to read this datacube, and discovered my
simple coding scheme to interpret the data as it was meant to be read. Do not
congratulate yourself just yet.
  After having studied you, profiled you, and categorized you, I feel I know you
as I might know myself; and as such, I could not let you die without ever
knowing the true purpose of the artifact on which you have spent much of your
remaining life. Even more importantly, I dislike you.
  And so I thought I would include this brief note in the morass of random bits;
without it you would have died never knowing the artifact's true purpose.
  And what is this purpose, you ask? A simple one...
  The old man was oblivious to everything around him, as the excited soldiers
called someone on another base to tell the news, as men arrived from all over
the country to examine the message and its implications.
  What else could be done? Oh, they could bring someone to dissect his mind --
try to bring back the thought, development, whatever it might have been, perhaps
by hypnosis -- but he was sure it was long gone by now. Decoding the box had
taken all his energy, all his intelligence -- as it had been designed to do.
  The man who had written that message had done his job well; decoding the
crystal's data had occupied his complete attention, and he would never have
accomplished it were it not forthe clue in the lettering. The writer had been so
smug...
  That blackboard. He remembered something -- not what he had been working on,
but a feeling about it, that it might have lead to something big.
  The University was thorough and meticulous, if anything -- he had left them,
but they would neve have thrown away his things, should he return.
  In a file in a box, in a dusty corner of a subbasement, was all his
accumulated mail. He paged through it briefly. Much of it was more
communications from SETI. They needed him to analyze their transmissions;
without him the data could never be translated. They desperately, desperately
needed him...Bequay shoved it all back into the box, disgusted. Perhaps the
University would let him return -- to pursue his own project, of course, but
ostensibly to teach again. He hated teaching.
  He must figure out what he had been working on, and develop it to the
fullest. Though stuck deep in the past, he would have the last laugh.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Robert Chansky is a vaguely asipiring writer in Santa Cruz, CA. He enjoys
computer and Peter Gabriel. This is hte second story he has published in Quanta,
the first one being "Literature," which was published in the December '89 issue.

robertc@sco.com

& literature

{{FICTION}}
  '__Literature__' by Robert chansky, (c)1989

  From the Dec '89 issue of Quanta, an online 'zine.
  http://www.etext.org/zines/Quanta

  Charles Pennet always felt a particular pleasure when he pulled the cover over
his ancient typewriter and went to the cupboard to fix himself the usual
post-novel drink. It was a great reward, that drink; the stuff that had almost
finished him once before now became his reward for a job well done. Nowadays he
allowed himself the alcohol only after the finish of a novel. Cause to
celebrate, as always.
  Charles Pennet wrote dirty books. Pornography was his life.
  There was a demand for it, and he seemed to have a talent, or so his many
editors told him, and as long as that demand and talent coincided, he would
continue with his chosen line.
  Oh, there was the occasional twinge of guilt-- not for what he did of course,
for Charles was a pragmatic man, but for what he did not do; A real book, real
literature, something to be proud of, a profession that he didn't have to hide
away beneath his many pseudonyms. Indeed, he had started several serious books,
only to give up, frustrated. Each quickly became boring without the added
flavor, so to speak, that was Charles' unique style. And his books, after all,
had paid for the house he lived in, kept him well fed and with a hefty bank
account. He had done quite well for himself.
  One might think it odd that Charles never actually did many of the things he
wrote of in his many books and articles. He lived a very sheltered life. But
that was fine with him. (What was that author's name, the woman who lived out in
the moors in England and wrote?-- Well, it didn't matter.) Charles was in
company with a lot of authors, writing about the human experience while too busy
to join in. The only difference between he and they being the experiences he
wrote about.
  Another ritual consisted of bundling the manuscript up for a stop at the
library-- photocopying it all was an expensive, but necessary, task, or so his
lawyer told him. the industry was very cutthroat. A few big rubber bands kept it
together nicely. Charles was engaged in this when there was a knock at the the
door.
  Unfortunately Charles was the type of person who never used the small peephole
provided for them to see potential criminals before letting them in. He opened
the door wide, and wondered why there seemed tobe nobody there, when he chanced
to look down and beheld the creature.
  Through the miracle of human perception, Charles was instantly able to
determine that the creature before him was an alien. Not of this Earth. Not, one
would suppose, from anywhere nearby at all.
  The alien looked like a boulder. It was about three feet high, mostly round,
in fact spherical, and a reddish-brown that might have looked almost comforting
on a familiar object such as a rotten tomato. Its skin was wrinkled and worn,
like an old leather jacket. Eyestalks sprouted from its right and left flanks,
aimed at Charles. What looked like a tentacle sprouted from the side of the
boulder (being careful not to get in the way of its eye) aiming a gun-- not a
streamlined raygun, but a functional Colt .45-- directly at Charles. He backed
away.
  The alien rolled after him. To do this it flattened an area of itself facing
Charles, so that it would tumble into the cavity thus created. The eyestalks on
both sides of the creature rotated slightly but did not waver from him. Neither
did the tentacle with the gun.
  Another tentacle made an appearance. This one emerged (from behind the other
eyestalk) wrapped around a square black box, grilled at one end. Squeaks and
incomprehensible noises came from the creature, and from the box came a voice.
  "You," it said, "are Charles Pennet." The box sounded electronic, with
irregular pauses between its words.
  Charles swallowed. If given a few minutes, he might have said something,
either to confirm or deny his name. Neither of these options presented
themselves.
  "There is something which you will do for me." The alien rolled further into
the room without asking for an invitation. Yet another tentacle emerged from the
same side of its body as the first to snake around the doorknob and pull it
shut.
  Charles was not sure how to react to the alien. His life had been very
structured, very ordered, until now. The alien's presence offended him, in a way
he could not really describe, not even to himself. Just as if a total stranger
had nudged him with an unwanted elbow, the alien was an intrusion into his life,
one he didn't really want, not just now. Charles felt a kind of anger rising
inside him.
  "Now wait a minute. Wait a minute--" he said, though there was really nothing
he could think of to say to the creature.
  It didn't care. Something reached out from the creature and pushed at his
mind. Charles sank to the floor. He could see and hear, but he could not
move. At least he didn't think he could move; it just seemed like moving so much
as a finger didn't appeal to him at all. Laying as he was on the floor seemed,
in the absence of other ideas, an excellent option. Anything else was not to be
considered.
  "My place of origin," the alien explained, "is known as Cetella. My name is
unpronounceable and not important. What you will do for me is." The alien rolled
closer to him, giving him the full benefit of a body odor that reminded him of
egg salad, as it explained.
  Charles had just finished a particularly explicit novel for which he had real
hopes just before he was contacted by the Cetellan alien, who had developed a
taste for human books.
  The Cetellan idea of literature was not at all the same as the human idea of
literature. But some of their scrawlings intrigued it greatly. As it pred with
glassy eyes over the mass of data the ship's computer had translated for it, it
had found, here and there, something that piqued its interest.
  And it had decided, fatefully, that here was money to be made.
  Regretfully, humans being who they are, and Cetellans being what they are, it
was necessary that some adjustments be made before anything of a potential
money-making nature was introduced to a Cetellan culture at large.
  And the alien, whose name is unpronounceable by a human as well as unprintable
by any human typesetter, had thought of a way. A way that involved as little
work for it as possible.
  Charles wanted to hide in a corner somewhere and gibber. He somehow remained
standing. "What... what am I supposed to do?"
  The gun, and the tentacle that held it, Occupied Charles' full attention, to
the point that he had not heard much of what the alien was saying. Now he forced
himself to listen.
  "It has taken me some time to find you. There is-- some literature which you
will-- translate for me." the electronic voice paused before certain words,
possibly because its translator had to look them up. "You will change only
certain species-specific passages, as I have machines to translate to my own
language. I will leave you books and materials to help you." The it waited for
him to speak.
  "I don't understand this. You're... and alien!"
  "Human powers of perception are most impressive."
  "What... what if I refuse?"
  This question was obvious, and the boulder appeared to have worked it out
beforehand. "You have ten seconds to accept. Otherwise, a-- virus will be
introduced into your-- biosphere which will render it lifeless. This is your
incentive to work for me. Remember it, and do not doubt that I will do as I
say."
  It paused. "Very well," it said. It produced another device, like a small
computer, from somewhere inside its actual body, Charles supposed. "this machine
is -- programmed with translations of an anatomy text of my race, and another
book which will help you with what you are to do. The tentacle dropped the
machine on Charles' desk nine feet away. "You are to translate this book." The
book slapped down next to the other machine. "I will return in seven days. If
the book has not been translated by that time, or if you have contacted --
authorities of your -- government in an attempt to avoid this task, the virus of
which I spoke will be immediately vented into your planet's biosphere. I will
leave now."
  "Wha... wait, you can't--..."
  The alient turned to face him by spiraling like a top. "Remember," it said,
"that you are translating the literature into a different culture, and not
language, as my devices can manage that. Also remember to preserve the
original... flavor... for which the writing was intended."
  The creature quivered, and began, ponderously, to roll across Charles'
floor. One of its tentacles (this made a total of four; he wondered how many it
had) opened the door for its owner. The creature rolled heavily down Charles'
walkway into the dark, oblivious to its surroundings, to a car waiting for
it. Charles could see through the open door that the interior of the car had
been removed its windows artificially darkened. The car was cavernous
inside. Charles watched the alien as it rolled aboard, lowering its vehicle with
its weight.
  Charles shut his door. He had seen an alien. He had actually seen an alien.
  It sounded like some stupid science fiction story.
  The Cetellan's car drove off. Would it really destroy the Earth, or was it a
bluff?
  Charles went to his deskt to examine the machine the alien had given him. It
seemed very simple; in fact instructions were written in English on the
front. He figured out how to call up the anatomy text. He summoned the other,
and discovered that it seemed to be the alien equivalent of a sexual self-help
book. It was very detailed, and fascinating to someone in Charles' profession.
  The title of the terrastrial book on his study, an ordinary hardcover, caught
his attention. It was, he found, Lady chatterly's Lover. This was the literature
the Cetellan wanted him to translate.
  The alien had not left unobserved. A Mrs. Edith Cummings lived next door to
him, not knowing (of course) his exact occupation. Mrs. cummings was an ardent
Christian fundamentalist, her thoughts never straying from purity and good
faith. She had always kept an eye on Charles, ever since he'd moved in. He was
an easy man not to trust. There had been something shiftless about him, like he
didn't really belong in this quiet upper-class neighborhood.
  And a chance look out her kitchen window, to investigate that strange car
parked before her neighbor's house, proved her suspicions correct.
  Charles was keeping strange company, indeed.
  Aliens.
  She decided that this would do with some looking into.
  All night and the next day the furious tapping of charles' typewriter reached
Mrs. Cummings' ears incessantly. Eventually the next afternoon the typing came
to a halt, and she looked up from her knitting. A quick glance across her front
yeard told her that Charles had left the house. The time, she thought, was now.
  Walking slowly (so as not to arouse suspicion), she headed out of her own
abode toward her neighbor's. She tried the door, and found that it was
unlocked. Probably going out for something to eat, she thought.
  Mrs. Cummings never wasted time. She examined drawers, closets, under
beds. Charles' shower and bath did not escape her scrutiny. Eventually she got
to the bookshelf, and was, predictably, shocked. "Filth!" she cried.
  Adorning the shelf were an uncountable number of books and magazines, their
content easily identifiable by the racy pictures on the front. Mrs. Cummings was
familiar with many of the titles, as she had participated in a book rally
(burning) in which they had been prominently featured. This time, she examined
the authors. The names all seemed to have something in common. Chuck
Penn.. C. Penter... all the names sounded very nearly like her neighbor, Charles
Pennet.
  Suddenly it dawned on her. He had written them. HE was the author of
this.. this...
  "Filth!" she said again, louder this time. In fact Charles was the reason of
the P section in many adult bookstores was disproportionately large.
  Mrs. Cummings examined the typewriter and the paper that lay inside it, and
unknowningly became the first Cetellan literary critic.
    She saw him again, in the garden. Just to touch him, she though. Just to
    stroke his tight calloused skin would be heaven... suddenly she stopped. She
    realized her dorsal tentacle was fully extended! What would her husband say,
    if he knew? But... on the other hand, what would he say?
  Her first though was to burn it-- burn it all! But then--
  No, she through. She would wait. The police would never understand.
  Mrs. Cummings tried to put everything back where it had been, and after
reading through the contents of the Cetellan reading machine, exited Charles'
house barely five minutes before he returned.
  Charles knew it was the alien even before he heard the car door open. It was
late again, and exactly one week after its first appearance. He was not too
nervous. He had done what it demanded of him, finished the manuscript. The
boulder would not sterlize the planet, and then all of this would be behind him.
  This time it did not bother with knocking. The door swung wide, and closed
again.
  He looked up, and there was the alien. It still aimed the gun at him. Charles
wondered where it had gotten it from.
  "You have done what I wish." A statement, not a question.
  "Yes."
  "Give me the manuscript." Charles handed the pages to the alien, which put
them in case and concealed it inside itself.
  "You're not going to kill everybody?"
  In response the alien produced two more hardcovers, placing them on the same
corner of Charles' study again. He suddenly felt very sick. He had stayed up
three nights.. "I will return," the Cetellan said, "in six days. If this
literature is not translated in the same manner as the previous sample I gave
you, I will sterilize--"
  At that moment Charles' front door exploded inward, as though by some
artillery burst. The doorknob sailed across the room, burying itself in the
opposite wall. A women entered, an old woman. She was carrying a
shotgun. "Mrs. Cummings!" Charles said, astonished.
  Mrs. Cummings saw the Cetellan, and her eyes took on an angry reddish color as
she swung her weapon around toward it. "Filth mongerer!" he thought she
shouted. This seems to be all too fast for the alien to use its mind-push or the
.45. She fired.
  The The boulder seemed to explode gore all over the room and
Mrs. Cummings. Shredded typewriter paper flew everywhere, the work of the last
week scattered all over the room and spattered with what passed for alien
blood. Charles, shocked but still retaining his sense, tried to shrink from her
view, looking for a way to get past her without being killed.
  From his knowledge of Cetellan anatomy Charles figured the alien would not be
easily killed by a gun like that, as its thick braincase was approximately in
its middle and little else but muscle outside that. But Mrs. Cummings seemed to
know that too. She took the alien's .45 from the floor and proceeded to pump the
center of the leeding mass full of bullets until the gun was out, then dropped
it.
  Charles' rear doorknob poked him in the small of his back. He reached behind
himself to open it, then sat the old women had her shotgun on him now. "Don't
you move," she said. Ice coated his stomach. "It was you," she said. "You wrote
that... that..."
  The word exploded, "Filth!" and the gun would have as well, but it only
clicked. Two shots. Chrales pushed his way past the women, grabbed the alien's
book and vacated the premises.
  The alien body made an incredible media sensation when it was discovered, and
Mrs. Cummings became an unwitting instant hero. Chares, who had changed his name
so many times that it was almost a habit for him, managed to avoid the
persistent reporters and the net of government agents trying to track him, until
the sensation died down. Eventually he found another house-- smaller but much
more isolated-- and bought a typewriter.
  Cautiously, he checked the aliennn's sex-and-anatomy book, and was pleased to
find it still operative. It was time to go to work.
  Of course he'd have to find one of the Cetellans again, but perhaps they would
find him. They would deal with him on his own terms this time. There was a new
demand, and Charles Prendergast intended to fill it.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Robert Chansky is a CIS graduate from UC Santa Cruz. This is, he says, one of
the few stories he's managed to finish. He's the creator of a UNIX game called
"Galactic Bloodshed", a mutli-player Empire-like game of interstellar war.

& meat

{{HISTORY}}

  THEY'RE MADE OUT OF MEAT

  A dialogue by Terry Bisson, from OMNI, April 1991, in the "Alien/Nation"
  series of stories. This story, which was a 1991 Nebula nominee, appears
  frequently around the internet, it was the #1 post on UseNet in 1991.

{{DIALOGUE}}

  "They're made ouf of meat."
  "Meat?"
  "Meat. They're made out of meat."
  "Meat?"
  "There's no doubt about it. We picked up several from different parts of the
planet, took them onboard our recon vessels, and probed them all the way
through. They're completely meat."
  "That's impossible. What about the radio signals? The messages to the stars?"
  "They use the radio waves to talk, but the signals don't come from them. The
signals come from machines."
  "So who made the machines? That's who we want to contact."
  "__They__ made the machines. That's what I'm trying to tell you. Meat made the
machines."
  "That's ridiculous. How can meat make a machine? You're asking me to believe
in sentient meat."
  "I'm not asking you, I'm telling you. These creatures are the only sentient
race in that sector and they're made out of meat."
  "Maybe they're like the Orfolei. You know, a carbon-based intelligence that
goes through a meat stage."
  "Nope. They're born meat and they die meat. We studied them for several of
their life spans, which didn't take long. Do you have any idea what's the life
span of meat?"
  "Spare me. Okay, maybe they're only part meat. You know, like the Weddilei. A
meat head with an electron plasma brain inside."
  "Nope. We thought of that, since they do have meat heads, like the
Weddilei. But I told you, we probed them. They're meat all the way through."
  "No brain?"
  "Oh, there's a brain all right. It's just that the brain is __made out of
meat__ That's what I've been trying to tell you."
  "So ... what does the thinking?"
  "You're not understanding me, are you? You're refusing to deal with what I'm
telling you. The brain does the thinking. The meat."
  "Thinking meat! You're asking me to believe in thinking meat!"
  "Yes, thinking meat! Conscious meat! Loving meat. Dreaming meat. The meat is
the whole deal! Are you beginning to get the picture or do I have to start all
over?"
  "Omigod. You're serious then. They're made out of meat."
  "Thank you. Finally. Yes. They are indeed made out of meat. And they've been
trying to get in touch with us for almost a hundred of their years."
  "Omigod. So what does this meat have in mind?"
  "First it wants to talk to us. Then I imagine it wants to explore the
Universe, contact other sentiences, swap ideas and information. The usual."
  "We're supposed to talk to meat."
  "That's the idea. That's the message they're sending out by
radio. 'Hello. Anyone out there. Anybody home.' That sort of thing."
  "They actually do talk, then. They use words, ideas, concepts?"
  "Oh, yes. Except they do it with meat."
  "I thought you just told me they used radio."
  "They do, but what do you think is __on__ the radio? Meat sounds. You know how
when you slap or flap meat, it makes a noise? They talk by flapping their meat
at each other. They can even sing by squirting air through their meat."
  "Ohmigod. Singing meat. This is altogether too much. So what do you advise?"
  "Officially or unoficially?"
  "Both."
  "Officially, we are required to contact, welcome and log in any and all
sentient races or mutlibeings in this quadrant of the Universe, without
prejudice, fear or favor. Unofficially, I advise that we erase the records and
forget the whole thing."
  "I was hoping you would say that."
  "It seems harsh, but there is a limit. Do we really want to make contact with
meat?"
  "I agree one hundred percent. What's there to say? 'Hello, meat. How's it
going?' But will this work? How many planets are we dealing with here?"
  "Just one. They can travel to other planets in special meat containers, but
they can't live on them. And being meat, they can only travel through C
space. Which limits them to the speed of light and makes the possibility of
their ever making contact pretty slim. Infinitesimal, in fact."
  "So we just pretend there's no one home in the Universe."
  "That's it."
  "Cruel. But you said it yourself, who wants to meet meat? And the ones who
have been aboard our vessels, the ones your probed? You're sure they won't
remember?"
  "They'll be considered crackpots if they do. We went into their heads and
smoothed out their meat so that we're just a dream to them."
  "A dream to meat! How strangely appropriate, that we should be meat's dream."
  "And we marked the entire sector __unoccupied__."
  "Good Agreed, officially and unofficially. Case closed. Any others? Anyone
interesting on that side of the galaxy?"
  "Yes, a rather shy but sweet hydrogen core cluster intelligence in a class
nine star in G445 zone. Was in contact two galactic rotations ago, wants to be
friendly again."
  "They always come around."
  "And why not? Imagine how unbearably, how unutterably cold the Universe would
be if one were all alone ..."

  The end

& newship

                 How to add a new ship type to GB
    _________________________________________________________________

  This is not going to be easy...My C programming is very...very rusty...
  But... Lets nuke the Quarry (thanks Tapsa)...

  In ships.h
  #define OTYPE_BEERKEG 47
  #define NUMSTYPES (STYPE_SUPERPOD+2)

  The first lineis for a new type. And it is ship number 47, the next line,
  I just added 1...so the number of ships is correct. (OK...I nuked this
  part...but I am keeping it in here for reference.
    _________________________________________________________________

  shipdata.h
  Since I am using "q" lets keep that for now...
  char Shipltrs[] = { 'p', 's', 'X', 'D', 'B', 'I', 'C', 'd', 'f', 'e', 'H',
                      'S', 'O', 'c', 't', '+', 'M', '=', 'i', '-', 'a', 'g',
                      'h', '2', 'l', 'w', ':', 'G', 'F', 'T', '[', '^', 'n',
                      'q', 'K', 'Y', 'W', 'J', '&', 'R', 'b', 'L', 'm', 'k',
                      'j', '!', 'P' };

  Now, need to add the data line for this new ship: need to find the quarry
  line..and first, change "QUA" to "KEG" then we can play with the numbers
  {/*Keg"/ 5, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 35, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 10, 17, 8, 0, 0, 0,
   0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1}

  Tech level to creat ship, number of cargo space, number of bays, max amount of
  dest, number of guns, prim gun str, sec gun str, fuel capacity, number of
  crew, armor level, cst mt, jump capable, ld sw, speed, dm, bd, cn, mod, laser
  capable, crew capable, clk, god only, rg, port, rep, pay, dock

  In the "const char *Shipnames[NUMSTYPES] = {" part add:
  "Beer Keg"
  To the end
    _________________________________________________________________

  exam.dat
  Add the end, add in the information about your ship. In this case:
  ~
  Beer Keg
    The Beer Key. Hey? What can I say about this. It's a Beer Keg!! Oh, it
  increases Moale :-) (Well, duh!)
    _________________________________________________________________

  This is as far as I got. With this in play. I can see the new ship in the
  "build ?" listing:
    i Ground Telescope  0 0 0 0 0 0 0  0  2 0 5  2
    q Beer Keg          0 0 0 0 0 0 0 20 10 0 5 20
    s Shuttle          10 0 0 1 1 1 0 20 10 3 5  8

  and the "build ? q" works :-) But...these are the wrong order...should be
    F Factory             0 0  0   0  0 0 0    0  20 0 0  21
    q Quarry              0 0  0   0  0 0 0   20  10 0 0  16
    W Weapons Plant     500 0  5   0  0 0 0  500  20 0 0 110
    J Space Port          0 0  1   0  0 0 0    0 100 0 0  58
    @ Government Center 500 0 20 100 10 1 0 1000  10 0 0 913
    p Spore Pod           0 0  0   0  0 0 0   20   1 3 0   3
    i Ground Telescope    0 0  0   0  0 0 0    0   2 0 5   2
    K Space Plow          0 0  0   0  0 0 0   20  10 0 5  20
    s Shuttle            10 0  0   1  1 1 0   20  10 3 5   8

& plan

                                   {{THE PLAN}}

                          In the beginning was the Plan.

                          And then came the Assumptions.
                      And the Assumptions were without form.
                       And the Plan was without substance.
                And the darkness was upon the face of the Workers.

                     And they spake among themselves, saying,
                    "It is a crock of shit, and it stinketh."

              And the Workers went unto their Supervisors and said,
          "It is a pail of dung, and none may abide the odor there of."

              And the Supervisors went unto their Managers, saying,
             "It is a container of excrement, and it is very strong,
                         such that none may abide by it."

               And the Managers went unto their Directors, saying,
         "It is a vessel of fertilizer, and none may abide its strength."

        And the Directors spoke amongst themselves, saying one to another,
        "It contains that which aids plant growth, and it is very strong."

        And the Directors went unto the Vice Presidents, saying unto them
              "It promotes growth, and it is very powerful indeed."

        And the Vice Presidents went unto the President, saying unto him,
  "This new plan will actively promote the growth and vigor of the company, with
                                powerful effects."

        And the President looked upon the Plan, and saw that it was good.

                           And the Plan became Policy.

& prance

Some old jokes from prance.hlp...

{{PANDA}}

  A PANDA walks into an old West saloon and growls "GIMME SOME FOOD!" after
wolfing down (panda-ing down?) the food, he draws a six-shooter, plugs the piano
player dead in the back, and heads for the door.

  The bartender hollers "Hey! You just killed my piano player, and you haven't
paid me for he food!" The panda replies "Idiot! I'm a *panda*! LOOK IT UP!" And
away he goes.

  The bartender looks up "panda" in the dictionary and finds: "large furry
marsupial of the Asian continent. Eats shoots and leaves."

{{HIPPIE}}

  A hippie gets onto a bus and proceeds to sit next to a Nun in the front
seat. The Hippie looks over and asks the Nun if she would have sec with him. The
Nun surprised by the question politely declines and gets off at the next stop.
  When the bus starts on it's way the guy driving the bus says to the hippie,
"If you want I can tell you how you can get that nun to have sex with you." The
hippie of course says that he'd love to know so the bus driver tells him that
every Tuesday evening at midnight the nun goes to the cemetary to pray to the
lord. "If you went dressed in robes and some glowing powder," said the bus
driver guy, "you could tell her you were God and command her to have sex with
you."
  Well the Hippie decided to try this out. So that Tuesday he goes to the
cemetary and waits for the nun. And right on schedule the nun shows up. When
she's in the middle of praying the hippie walks out from hiding, in robes and
glowing with a mask of god. "I am God, I have heard your prayers and I will
answer them but you must have sex with me first."
  The nun agrees but asks for anal sex so she might keep her virginity. The
hippie agrees to this and quickly sets about to go to work on the nun.
  After the Hippie finishes, he rips off his mask and shouts out, "Ha ha, I'm
the hippie!!" The nun replied by whipping off her mask and shouting, "Ha ha, I'm
the bus driver!!"

{{SAMURAI}}
  There was a samurai contest, and at the end a reporter decided to do his job
and report on it...
  First, he talked to the 3rd place Samurai, "Why did you finish 3rd?"
  The samurai replied, "Watch." He opened a window, and a fly flew in. The
Samurai swung his blade and sliced the fly in half.
  The reporter gasped, and said "Wow, if 3rd place is THIS good, I can't wait to
see the 2nd place Samurai!" So he went to talk to the 2nd place Samurai. He
asked "Why did you finish 2nd?"
  The Samurai replied, "Watch." He opened a window and a fly flew in, and he
swung twice and chopped it in four pieces.
  The reporter gasped again, and said "Wow, if 2nd is THIS good, I can't wait to
see the 1st place Samurai!" So he went and asked the winning Samuari, "Why is it
that you won the tournament?"
  The Samurai replied, "Watch." He opened a window, and a fly flew in. The
Samuari slashed at it, and it flew away unscathed.
  The reporter said "But, you didn't kill it!"
  The Samurai replied "No, but it'll never have kids again."

& racehelp

                    So you want to make a race for GB...
                       By Mathew Anderson (God @ Kaos)

  IQ: The first thing you want to decide on when you make your race is what IQ
you want to have. Your IQ/100 is how much tech you gain each update
normally. Getting to new techs first can give you a great advantage over less
intelligent races, but the higher reaches of IQ cost quite a bit.

  Sample Techs: 50 Hyperjump/Crystal tech/Planetary Terraform. 80 Atmosphere
Terraform. 100 Space Habitats (usually excellent production of resources
requires access to a Jovian planet to scoop fuel from)/Destroyers.

  Race Type: The two race types are 'Normal' and 'Metamorph/Meso.' Normal races
are the most common choice and tend to have lower costs on IQ and other 'techie'
scores. Metamorphs tend to have cost breaks on combat and production stats,
while sufferng in birth rate and 'techie' things. Mesos are the only ones who
can get Pods and Absorb. Although the costs can get a bit strange the occasional
smart Meso or dumb/aggressive Normal do work out.

  Metabolism: This is your production of resources and fuel. More correctly this
is the chance that a sector you have people in will increase in efficiency at
the update. a 1.2 metab would cause you to gain 1 efficiency each update, with a
20% chance of a second, each update. It also is a direct multiplier of your
production (varies). Taxes (see help in the game) reduce your effective metab on
planets for the purposes of efficiency gain.

  Planet Type: The planet type you choose will determine your primary sector
type and the costs for purchasing compatibility with other sectors. Here are
some general notes on each of the planet types and their main sector types:
  Earth: Land/Water/Ice, good size.
  Forest: Forest/Ice, nice size, really high population base.
  Dessert: Dessert/Ice/Mountain, good size, low pop, high resources.
  Water: Water/Ice, ok size, high pop.
  Ice: Ice/Mountain, sorta small, fairly common.
  Airless: Mountain/Land/Ice, sorta small low pop, common.
  Jovian: Gas, huge, really high pop, moderate res, uncommon.
  Asteroid: Mountain, yuck.

  % With Sector Types: This is your ability to live on sectors of that type, as
well as a direct multiplier of your chance to gain efficiency in sectors or that
type you are living in each update. There is also a charge for each sector type
you choose. The charge for each sector type and the relatively low cost for %
makes 100% pretty much the only choice when assigning compats. Only Jovian
Planet players may curchase compat with Gas sectors. During the games
Terraforming Devices may transform non-gas sectors to Gas on planets for Jovian
players, but Gas sectors cannot be changed except where they have been changed
to Gas on other planet types.

  Fight: Pretty simple. The combat str of each of your people.

  # of Sexes: 1 or more (most commony 2, 1 for Mesos). This is the number of
'tons of biomass (people)' you need to have in a sector in order to
reproduce. Having 1 sex is relatively cheap and makes setting up colonies a
little easier on you, but if you need the points it's not a must-have.

  Birth Rate: How close to the theoretical max pop you can get in each sector
you inhabit.

  Adventurism: How much your people tend to spill out of sectors as they fill up
with population. Saves work moving people around on your planets, nice when you
start to get a lot of colonies you don't have time for. :)

  Fertility: The chance that the fertility in a sector will raise by 1 each
update. The maximum population in a sector is based on your birth rate, the
efficiency of the sector (1-100), the fertility of your sector (1-100), the
plaentary compatibility (temp/atmosphere), and your compat % with the sector
type.

  Pods*: Pods are small ships that can be build directly from a planet's surface
and sent off to 'infect' other planets. Pods work like most other ships but they
can't be modified, and they can 'infect' planets. When a pod enters a solar
system it has a chance each update to burst and send a seed shooting towards one
of the planets in the system (about 1 in 4 succeed). You can also rush towards
the planets and land if you make it in time.

  Absorb*: An evil combat ability. The ability to absorb your enemy's population
as you fight with him. Your birth rate effects how much of the killed population
is added to your own.

  Collective IQ: A racial mind, your race has a maximum IQ and a current IQ
based on your total population. A lot of points, but takes a while to get your
population up to the point where you have a good IQ.

  Strange things: You should experiment with you stats and see how they affect
each other (yes, they actually do). An example: the higher the mass your race
has the less IQ costs and the more metab costs.

  * = Only available to metamorph race types.

  _____________________________________________________________________________

  So you are mkae a GB race for the first time..

  I'd recomment a Normal race with at least IQ 150, at least Metab 1.0, several
sector types at 100%, at least .4 birth rate, some adventurism would be nice,
and a planet type of at least average size. Other than that experiment :)

  Once the game starts ask a lot of questions.

& shiphelp

Dan Bongar (dbongard@netcom.com) wrote:

  Heya. A few tips for Galactic-Bloodshed newbies. Don't be insulted if you
think some of these are glaringly obvious; you'd be surprised what people have,
in the past, not known.

1) Most ships are built by factories. Here is a partial list of ones which are
   not:
     Pods
     Ground Telescopes
     Weapons Plants
     Factories
     Domes
     Space Plows
     Terraformers
     Atmosphere Processors
     ABM Battery
     Gamma Ray Laser
     Government Center
     Planet Defense Net

   (There are others; do a "build ?" to see what can build a given type of
   ship.)

2) Here is the procedure for building ships in factories:
   a) Build a factory on a planet. For example "build F 3,2" builds a factory on
      sector 3,2 of the planet you are currently at.

   b) Change scope into the factory. This is done by typing "cs #", where
      "shipnumber" is the number of the factory in question (Note: It told you
      this number when you built the factory in the first place).

Someone:
  Yes, it good practice to name factories as 'Missiles speed9', 'Destroyer',
etc. ... not - basically it's better the less information you give to your
fellow players. On the other hand you could name later that tech 11.2 shuttle
factory as 'Mines d50' and missile factory as 'El Cheapo dhuttles'.

  If you happen to be attacking someone's systems hs Fs are top priority
targets. You should try to figure out what each factory produces - if your enemy
hasn't names them only information you have is the size of factories (which you
can find out from 'tactical' report). Size of a factory is same as the size of a
ship it makes.

  Size 1 factories make missiles, mines or shuttles - you probabaly want to
destroy all size 1 factories so that your enemy can't make any missiles to
destroy your fleet.

  Huge factories usually make tankers, caros or little carriers. Mid size ones
might make nearly anything - if there is enemy ships you could try to match
their size to F's size.

Gary:
  A few interesting things about factories... There are several ways to figure
out what you have being build in your factory without actually having to go into
the factory and check.
  a) Name the Fs after what you are producing. Easy to spot for you and for your
    enemies. :) You name ships by cs'ing into them and typing 'name ship
    WHATEVER'.
  b) Type weap F in the scope with the factories in question. This gives you a
    weapon report of the Fs, which strangely enough lists what they are building
    too. It shows the ship type and the class of ship being build there. You set
    the class by cs'ing into the factory and typing 'name class WHATEVER' just
    before you turn it on.

Kari Seppanen:
  Wouldn't 'factory' command be the easiest way?
  c) Type "make ", where "shipletter" is the letter of the ship you want to
     build. For instance, "make s" sets the factory to produce Shuttles. This is
     probably what your first factory will be for. :)
  d) Modify the ship's stas,m if desired. (more on this is (3), below).
  e) When you are abso-smurfly positive you have the ship design you want, type
     "order # on", where "shipnumber" is the number of the factory. NOTE:
     Turning the factory on costs resources! The cost is equal to twice the cost
     of the ship you will be producing. ALSO NOTE: You can't change the stats of
     the factory's production model once the factory has been turned on. Want to
     build a new ship type? Build a new factory.
  f) Wait for three updates. "Why wait?" you ask? Well, a factory starts at 75%
     damage and can't produce ships until it is fully "healed". Damage heals at
     25% per update. If the game has movesegs (which they pretty much all do
     these days), the 25% will be divided up among the movesegs... this can
     result in it taking a little longer for factories to fully heal, since the
     damage healed each moveseg is rounded down. If that sounded confusing, it
     isn't: just wait patiently for three updates or so and the factory will be
     ready. There's nothing you can do to speed this up, and nothing will slow
     it down short of somebody shooting the factory. :)
  g) When the factory is healed... congrats! You can produce ships! To do this,
     change scope into the factory again and type "build". Poof! A new ship!
     Alternately, you can type "build " to build ships at once. Beats typing
     "build" fifty times, let me tell you. :)

3) Modifying ships:
  OK, so you're in the factory's scope, you've ordered it to "make" a type of
ship... now what?
  Now you learn the joys of the "modify" command ("mod") for short). :)
  Type "make". You'll see a printout of the ship's stats. The good news is that
you can modify almost every single one of those stats!
  "But why", you ask, "would I want to do that?"
  Well, besides the obvious benefits of, for instance, adding extra fuel or crew
to a ship, or increasing the number of guns... you can take features OFF of a
ship to decrease it's efective tech level. This means you can be building
Destroyers, Tankers, and Cargo ships literally dozens of updates before Tech
100. Granted, they will be comparatively wimpy for thier class, but they can
still be effective.
  The Tanker, for instance, is often used as a "jumpship". Hyperdrive tech comes
along at tech 50, but there generally aren't any good long-range hyperdrive
craft at that tech level. However, by dropping a few thousand Fuel Capacity from
a Tanker, and dropping its Destruct and Guns to lower levels, and lowering the
crew... voila. A Tech 50 Tanker, with Hyperdrive, and with 5 hangers... that's
enough to carry 4 shuttles and a space telescope.
  This means that you can jump into a system, use the space telescope to examine
all the planets, and send shuttles to the 4 best planets right away. Which,
trust me, is a HELL of a lot faster than messing around with Explorers.
  NOTE: Some versions of GB have a ship type called the "Light Carrier". The
symbol is "j". These tend to be _extremely_ effective ships, so if you see them
in the game you may want to experiment between those and Tankers and see which
gives you better bang for your buck.
  Which reminds me... not all ship types are created equal, nor are all ship
types used for their intended purpose. For instance, Cargo Ships often make
might good warships, particularly at low tech; whereas the usefulness of
Destroyers tends to be limited by their low fuel capacity (which limits jump
range). The moral of this story is: experiment! I like to have one factory on my
homeworld which I neve, ever turn on. I just use it as a "research lab" of
sorts... basically just change scope, "make" a ship type, modify it, "make" a
new ship type, etc... this gives me an idea of what sorts of ships I'm capable
of building. NOTE: "make" and "build" are not the same thing. I don't mean to
imply that I'm actually _building_ all these different ship types. Using "make"
is like giving the factory a set of blueprints; "modify" modifies those
blueprints; ordering the factory on sets up the machinery to make the ship
specified by the blueprints; "build" actually builds the ships.
  Which reminds me: how Modify works. Just type "help modify" and it'll tell you
the commands, but, in short, "mod " is the formula. "Mod fuel 100" changes the
blueprints so that the new ship design will have 100 fuel.
  Keep an eye on two things above all else: Tech and cost. cost is how many
Resources it will take to build one of these. Tech is the tech level you'll have
to be at before you can _build_ one. Note that you can order the factory on even
if you can't build the design it is set to!
  Yes, this means my race, at tech 10, can design a tech 100 ship (a shuttle
that carries a billion crew, for instance). I can even order the factory
"on". However, even after the factory is fully repaired I won't be able to build
the ship design until I reach tech 100.
  A corollary to this: never forget it takes 3 updates for the factory to come
online. This means you can always get away with designing ships for tech levels
3 updates away. Let's say you have an IQ of 200, which is fairly normal for a
"techie" race. This means you will be gaining 2 tech per turn (200/100=2). So
even if you are only at Tech 24 now, you can design a Tech 30 ship and order the
factory on, because by the time it factory heals and comes online you will have
reached tech 30. Be careful; nothing is more annoying than having an unbuildable
Tech 30.1 design which you race is at Tech 30; err on the side of caution.
  One final note: you can "upgrade" ships after they are built. This costs
resources, and those resources HAVE to be IN the ship. So, if you ever want to
upgrade a ship, leave some of the cargo capacity when you "modify" the
design. This isn't all that important for a "throwaway" ship, but it is a good
idea for those multi-hundred-resources jumpships and warships. Besides, who
knows when it'll come in handy. :)
